Prep for 1.0.0 Release (#8)
magento-research/magento2-upward-connector: README.md

# How to install UPWARD with a PWA Studio storefront

## Prerequisites

> - A dev, starter, or pro tier Magento Cloud project

Reviewer: `- An existing Magento Cloud project`

Author: Updated

- Composer
- Yarn or NPM
- A [Magento PWA Studio][] storefront managed by NPM or Yarn.

  You are not required to publish to npmjs.com, but
  NPM or Yarn should be able to access your project code through Git.

>   For this tutorial, the [`venia-concept`][] package for the [Venia storefront][] is used, but any PWA available though NPM with an UPWARD compatible YAML file is supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  For this tutorial, the [`@magento/venia-concept`][] package for the [Venia storefront][] is used, but any Web application with an UPWARD compatible YAML file in its root folder is supported.
```

## Add node package dependency

If it does not exist, [create a `package.json`][] file in your project directory.

```sh
npm init -y
```

Add your PWA Studio storefront to the list of dependencies in this file.

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "@magento/venia-concept": "~2.0.0"
  }
}
```

## Add Composer dependencies

Add the repository information for the UPWARD PHP server and UPWARD Connector to the `repositories` section in your `composer.json`.

```json
"upward-connector": {
    "type": "vcs",
    "url": "https://github.com/magento-research/magento2-upward-connector"
},
"upward-php": {
    "type": "vcs",
    "url": "https://github.com/magento-research/upward-php"
}
```

To have composer install these packages, add them to the `require` section of the `composer.json` file.

```json
"magento/module-upward-connector": "^1.0.0",

> "magento/upward": "^1.0.0"

Reviewer: We'll have to circle back to this once everything is tagged, but I _think_ once we switch to a stable version of `magento/upward` within the Connector, users shouldn't need to specify it here as well.

Reviewer 2: Maybe I'm a bit late to this, but I wonder if this should be called `upward-php-server` for clarity's sake? You know the Composer convention better than me, so if it's redundant to call it that, I get it.

Author: @bbatsche: Once published, that should be accurate. The docs should be usable at release, and those packages won't be published yet, so we should leave this in place. Maybe call it a `git-based` installation for development purposes?

@zetlen: I think a Composer package implies that it's PHP, and would be redundant. A name change would be much more difficult post-release, so if you want to be concise and go `upward-server`, let's make it happen now.

Reviewer 2: Thanks for that context. I anticipate more tools for UPWARD in various ecosystems so I would like to clarify this package's purpose by calling it `upward-server`.

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/magento-research/upward-php/pull/60

> "magento/upward": "^1.0.0"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
"magento/upward-server": "^1.0.0"
```
Pending merge of https://github.com/magento-research/upward-php/pull/60

```

<!--
* TODO: change `dev-test-cloud-integration` to `dev-master` when it is merged
* TODO: Remove instructions for adding repository locations after they have been published on Packagist.org and/or packages.magento.com
* TODO: After the packages are published, remove any mention of specifying a version for `magento/upward` as it will be included with `magento/module-upward-connector`
* TODO: After publishing, make sure the version of `magento/module-upward-connector` matches the actual version i.e. `^2.3` or `*`

> -->

Reviewer: Probably want to remove comments? I think?

Author: Removed

> ## Add Venia sample data (optional)

Reviewer 2: We still have https://github.com/magento-research/pwa-studio/blob/release/2.0/packages/venia-concept/deployVeniaSampleData.sh and it still works! You might want to verify that, but we could recommend this script to automate the next couple steps.

Author: Added option to use the script in that package

```yaml
hooks:
  # We run build hooks before your application has been packaged.
  build: |
    set -e

    unset NPM_CONFIG_PREFIX
    curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.34.0/install.sh | dash
    export NVM_DIR="$HOME/.nvm"
    [ -s "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh" ] && \. "$NVM_DIR/nvm.sh"
    nvm install --lts=dubnium

    yarn install

    php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools build:generate
    php ./vendor/bin/ece-tools build:transfer
```

### Add required environment variables

Use the Magento Cloud GUI or modify the `variables.env` entry in `.magento.app.yaml` to add any required environment variables.

The following table lists the required environment variables for the Venia storefront:

| Name                                                    | Value                                                       |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `CONFIG__DEFAULT__WEB__UPWARD__PATH` | `/app/node_modules/@magento/venia-concept/venia-upward.yml` |
| `NODE_ENV`                                              | `production`                                                |

> | `MAGENTO_BACKEND_URL` | `https://[your-cloud-url-here]` |

Reviewer: Need to add `USE_FASTLY`. Should be `0` in integration branches, `1` if it's a production or staging branch with Fastly configured
Should we also mention `BRAINTREE_TOKEN`?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, we need both those things--plus, we should clarify that `CONFIG__DEFAULT__WEB__UPWARD__PATH` must be the absolute path of the UPWARD file, and that the provided one happens to be Venia's. (As opposed to there being a standard name for the UPWARD file, which there intentionally isn't.)

Author: Added.

@jcalcaben can you review formatting, and suggest an edit if I butchered anything.

Reviewer 3: The formatting looks good to me when I view the rendered file in GitHub. 👍

## Add node package dependency

If it does not exist, [create a `package.json`][] file in your project directory.

```sh
npm init -y
```

Add your PWA Studio storefront to the list of dependencies in this file.

```json
{
  "dependencies": {
    "@magento/venia-concept": "~2.0.0"
  }
}
```

## Add Composer dependencies

### Option 1: Git based

Add the repository information for the UPWARD PHP server and UPWARD Connector to the `repositories` section in your `composer.json`.

```json
"upward-connector": {
    "type": "vcs",
    "url": "https://github.com/magento-research/magento2-upward-connector"
},
"upward-php": {
    "type": "vcs",
    "url": "https://github.com/magento-research/upward-php"
}
```

To have composer install these packages, add them to the `require` section of the `composer.json` file.

```json
"magento/module-upward-connector": "^1.0.0",
"magento/upward": "^1.0.0"
```

### Option 2: Package based

Add the repository information for the Magento package service to the `repositories` section in your `composer.json`.

```json
"repo": {
    "type": "composer",
    "url": "https://repo.magento.com/"
}

> ```

Reviewer: This information should already be included in any Magento installation, especially for Cloud

Add package to the `require` section of the `composer.json` file.

```json
"magento/module-upward-connector": "^1.0.0"

> ```

Reviewer: I would say we treat `README` as a living document. As of right now, doing a Git based deployment is the only option so it should be the documented process.

In the future, following a package based process is best practice so it should be the documented flow; git based may be used for developers who want to use pre-release versions and that process is documented in other places.
